---
layout: "post"
title: "Methods"
date: "2016-05-31 22:33"
---

## Do Now (in PyCharm)
Run this code:

```python
class Time(object):
 def __init__(self, hour, minute, second):
     self.hour = hour
     self.minute = minute
     self.second = second

time1 = Time(5, 32, 0)
time2 = Time(23, 11, 11)

print time1
print time2
```

_What the heck?_

**In Google Classroom...**

1. Looking at the output, how can you tell the difference between `time1` and `time2`?
2. What can you add to print out the `hour`, `minute`, and `second` attributes of `time1`?
3. What happens if you try to add `time1` and `time2`?

---

## Methods
We can't (easily) add the two `Time` objects together, but it's time to fix that.

**We** know that we **should** be able to add two times together, but we need to create a **method** in order for Python to be able to do that. We've already seen one **method**: `__init__`.

In order to be able to read our `Time`s, we need to turn them into `str`ings.

We can manually get each:

```python
print str(time1.hour) + ":" + str(time1.minute) + ":" + str(time1.minute)
```

Luckily, we can make the computer do that work for us, every time we use the `Time` class

Just like we defined `__init__`, we can define a special function _inside_ of the `Time` class. A **function** inside of a **class** is called a **method**[^1].

[^1]: Hey, that's the name of the lesson!

---

## Method to the Madness
1. Define a `__str__` method. It should start like this:

```python
class Time(object):
    def __init__(self, hour, minute, second):
        self.hour = hour
        self.minute = minute
        self.second = second
    def __str__(self):
    # Notice that methods are indented INSIDE the class and BELOW the __init__ method.
```
This will get called when you print an object, and it should `return` a string that is easy to read and understand, like `5:32:0`.

2. Next, define a `__add__` method.

```python
def __add__(self, somethingelse):
# Watch your whitespace!
```

It will take in **two** parameters: `self` and some `other` `Time` object. Before you start coding, think about what data Python can and _cannot_ add together. How can we turn `Time` objects into data which can be added, and into data to which we can add `:` (semicolons!)

### Test your code

```python
# Create at least 3 times:
time1 = Time(1,2,3)
time2 = Time(4,5,6)
time3 = Time(7,8,9)
# Then, run:
time1 + time3 + time3
# What's your output?
```


#### <span class="mega-octicon octicon-mark-github"></span> Upload your code to GitHub in a file called `Method_To_The_Madness.py`


---

## Practice with Classes
Go [here](https://www.codecademy.com/en/courses/python-intermediate-en-WL8e4/0/1?curriculum_id=4f89dab3d788890003000096), and get to lesson 18.

## Lab
Write a definition for a class named `Kangaroo` with the following methods:

1. An `__init__` method that initializes an attribute named `pouch_contents` to an empty list.
2. A method named `put_in_pouch` that takes an object of any type and adds it to `pouch_contents`.
3. A `__str__` method that returns a string representation of the Kangaroo object and the contents of the pouch.

Test your code by creating two Kangaroo objects, assigning them to variables named `kanga` and `roo`, and then adding `roo` to the contents of `kanga`’s pouch.

---

This is kind of awesome...
